So let's transition to some ARIA.
So we're kind of layering on top of some
of the basics here to get more advanced.
So with ARIA, the first kind of
concept that I want you to know
about is accessible name computation.
Which we've already talked about a little
bit with images inside of links and
buttons and ARIA labels, form labels.
And so within ARIA,
which is a specification for
a standard set of attributes for
accessibility,
there is this big concept that
has an impact on HTML markup and
it's called accessible naming.
And names apply to form controls,
links and
buttons, section elements even.
So I mentioned earlier that section and
nav landmarks that are repeated a lot.
You can give those names and
then in a screen reader,
it's easier to tell them apart.
Like is that section for
the personal information section or
is that for my communication preferences
like what is that section for?
Or a nav?
Is it our main nav is
that our social links?
Like what nav is that?
Those names with aria-label or
aria-labeledby our super helpful,
tables have names, figures,
field sets and legends and so
that like it's this programmatic way
of exposing the name of something.
But div elements do not, so
if you put an aria-label on a div,
Axe will complain at you because that
role doesn't allow it to be named.
So there's multiple ways to name
something, depending on what its role is,
text content, if you have
a label element with text in it,
that will become its accessible name for
an input when they're paired.
Aria-label, you can put right on
an interactive element or a landmark.
Aria-labelledby, and aria-labelledby is
really great because you can point to
an ID of another element, and it will grab
the text from that, even if it's hidden,
even if it has display none,
which is kind of interesting.
But that means you can reuse
content that is visible and
not risk it getting out of date.
And so
there's a lot of intricacies in here.
So how does this even work?
Because when you have multiple things
on an element, something has to win.
So which one wins?
Well, there is a document, a specification
called the accessible name and
description computation specification,
very geeky, and they standardize this.
So that browsers have at least some
consistency cross-platform and
it's not absolute chaos trying to
understand which thing's gonna win.
So I have an example of an implicit
label wrapping an input.
So zip code is label text.
The input also has an ARIA label
of zip-code which kind of makes me
think it might have been a typo.
They didn't really know what
an aria label was doing.
It also has a placeholder, for
a sample zip code and a title attribute.
So that's a lot of things.
Fortunately, the Chrome dev tools,
we can sort out which thing wins.
So it's not a mystery.
But this process of
the algorithm in the browser and
the accessibility APIs on your computer or
your phone, they follow this standard.
So at least you know it's repeatable.
There's some order here.
[LAUGH] Thank goodness.
[LAUGH] So it,
I've read through the thing.
So it goes like this, for
non-hidden elements that allow naming,
it goes aria-label-by, then aria-label,
then title and placeholder,
cuz they added those in when they saw
enough people were skipping names, like,
there's a title and a placeholder on it,
better than nothing.
So those are in there now.
And then it will go to a label element,
and then certain child controls,
and then text content,
if I read that correctly.
Fair warning,
that was my interpretation of it.
But I mean, how we follow the spec
is less important than like,
what are we hearing in a screen reader?
And like Chrome DevTools, well,
we can rely on that to tell us.
I mostly just wanted you
to know that this exists.
This isn't just like,
pull it out of thin air,
it is pretty interesting that
they've standardized that.
So, yeah, if you're hearing
differences cross platform,
they're more likely related
to things like roles.
There are some definite differences there.
But in terms of which thing wins for
a label,
it should be pretty static,
pretty standard.
So what are accessible descriptions?
We heard about names, and
those are always announced.
Names are always announced in a screen
reader, whereas Descriptions are optional.
They may be read out in
a screen reader after the fact.
There's a slight delay.
But they're configurable, so
users might opt out of descriptions.
So, you don't wanna rely on a description
with things like aria-describedby.
It works just like aria-labeledby,
except it creates a description,
points to an ID on another element.
And title is the one that you have
a little mouse tool tip thing
that pops up only for mouse users.
Title will act as a description
if there's already label,
like if there's already an accessible
name, title will become a description.
But you can't always count on those.
So just know that those also exist.
If you're trying to figure out
which attributes to use and
you wanna make sure you incorporate
some of the helpful information for
users, just know that description may or
may not be announced.
So you don't wanna rely on it for
anything important.
It's like helpful stuff
that's like nice to have, but
not like the critical information,
but with these attributes,
especially ARIA label, and I mean,
ARIA label buys better for this, but
we wanna prefer visible
text whenever possible.
So I think there's
sometimes a tendency for
developers to slap an ARIA-label
on something and call it good.
But that text usually isn't visible.
We don't wanna be repetitive either.
So if the text, like say you've got a
heading or something on the page already,
you can use aria-labelledby to
make the connection to use that as
an accessible name, but
then that visible text won't get outdated.
And you're reusing something
that's already on the page.
And there is a CAG success criterion
related to this called label and name.
It's basically to make sure that your
ARIA labels don't get out of sync with
what's on screen, because it can be
super confusing if something's labeled
programmatically one way, but
visually it says something else.
So that's why we prefer visible text.
And here is the Chrome Devtools
accessibility inspector.
Make this a little bit bigger,
showing a button.
And we've seen this a few times already.
But you can see in the computer
properties when there is a label,
I guess I'm in the image.
I'm focused on the SVG within the button,
but
when you're on an element that
has accessible name, like,
I guess contenders, [LAUGH] It'll show you
kinda which one won by crossing it out,
crossing the ones out that
aren't applying, question?
>> The user has a description turned off,
will they still be alerted of
the presence of ARIA described by,
so they can hear it if they want to?
>> You can hear it if you want to
I believe, there's probably a key
command I think it just depends
on the user's settings.
Yeah.
>> Is the ARIA label necessary when
the same string, for example the zip code,
is also in the label?
Or can I remove the ARIA
stuff when I have a label?
>> You can remove it.
Yeah, so if you already have a label,
use that.
So ARIA label, we don't want it
to be the first thing we choose,
it's a way to just directly
apply an accessible name, but
like how we talked about using HTML first,
if it's a form control,
you definitely wanna try and
use visible label text first.
Or text content, like in a button.
If it has text in it, we should let
that'll just be the accessible name,
text content was further down the list
of choices but when there's nothing
else to out compete, text content it
will win as the accessible name so
like that's why a button that has
text in it, that'll work fine.
So opt for that first And then you can
start considering ARIA if you need to.